I'm going to show you a recipe for the
most fantastic cottage pie you're gonna
absolutely love it it's full of veggies
super healthy not only will the kids
enjoy it it'll be really good for them
soon over here I've got potatoes and
pass them both cut up together and I'm
gonna stick that in some boiling water
okay so not just potatoes there's a mix
of potatoes and pasta well that comes up
to the boil which is going to be our
topping for the pie
I'm gonna prepare the filling so into a
really hot pan I've got some beef mince
I'm gonna go ahead and spread that in
now you can hear how hot the pan was
okay so I'm just gonna break that out
once your beef has had a couple of
minutes to get nice and brown what you
do is you take it out we're gonna strain
it and then take a little bit of the fat
off it you've hands back onto the heat
we're gonna let the heat go up up in
there again until it's nice and hot and
take my onions with my garlic my time
good stir I have a whole lot of
butternut pumpkin and I also have some
carrots so we're going to add this now
to the onions and that's going to cook
down so the pies got plenty of veggies
both inside and in the crust
right so once you carrot some pumpkin
have had about five minutes to start
sweating down and soften up a little bit
I've got some tomato paste here and what
this is gonna do is bring a real
richness to my pie so throw that in and
it's important that you sort of cook
this out a little bit before you add
your beef stock okay what you're gonna
do is you're gonna roast for that it's
gonna take a little bit of that natural
bitterness that is in that tomato face
so get that big girl stir I love this
dish is so special to me my mum used to
make a beautiful Shipman spine and I
could always remember when I walk into
her house and I'd smell that she'd been
cooking now I was so happy and I still
am today would I make it myself so once
your tomato paste is roasted out just
for a minute or two and you know that
that you can sort of see it starting to
stick to the pan a little bit just how
you want it the next thing you do is
grab your beef stock add that to your
pan
and then add your beef back in if you
pull that off without just dumping it
all in you'll see what juice is left now
if it's very oily you might want to
discard it if it's not too bad you might
be happy just to add it back in there's
not too much oil on that so I'm gonna
pull the whole thing back into there's
lots of flavor there right so now that
you've got your beef and your beef broth
back in there you want to get yourself a
lid and cover it you're going to simmer
it so you can turn it down just a little
for about 15 to 20 minutes so our beef
and vegetable mix has got about 10 15
minutes to go well our potatoes and
parsnips are now done so I'm gonna turn
those off strain the water look at that
back up so while their potatoes and
parsnips are steaming dry here I have
just a little butter and some milk in a
sauce but I'm gonna warm that up and
these go ahead and add all of your veg
back into the pan now if you want to do
something fancy like they do in
restaurants you can get one of these
food Rice's push-ups frugal become
really smooth and perfect and that's how
I love to do my mashed potato I'm
serving it with a steak or something
like that but for a dish like this a
couple of pumps are absolutely fine so
I'm going for the old conventional
potato masher just get in there and give
a quick old knock up together right so
once you've given that a good old mash
up let's season it plenty of salt and
then grab that milk and butter but now
I'm just gonna slowly add that okay a
little bit of elbow grease a little
taste
oh yeah tiny bit more salt
you'll notice I see to the top so
because I don't want those little flakes
of pepper in there if I season the base
with lots of pepper let's have a look at
it look at that delicious and rich
beautiful so just a little bit of salt
in there and then plan your pepper
rights we are so once this has a
beautiful consistency make sure you have
a taste
fantastic so over here I'm going to pull
up my four little dishes and literally
just come on over spoon this straining
divider even between two core ramekins
or dishes
so the next thing we do is get our
mashed potato and parsnip and you just
sort of add that for the top of each of
our pie dishes now of course you can do
this so many different ways you get a
piping bag advantage
I put in and make it look all fancy we
get super rustic you can make it nicely
smooth this is the way I like to do what
I do so I just get it a little bit on
top of each one and then I don't mind of
just pushing around spread it out like
that I quite like it when there's a
little bit of texture so I actually just
go over the top then dig a little crispy
bits of potato which I just love brush
with just a little melted butter the
beautiful thing about making products
price or Shepherd's pies for that matter
is you can make them up in a batch you
might only want to serve one or two
tonight and then you can pop the others
in the fridge the perfect meal so if
your family comes home at different
times okay I'm gonna pop these in the
oven 190 degrees for about 15 to 20
they're so delicious I love it when
those potatoes get so delicious and
crispy like that because you put all
that tomato paste into the actual base
of the play you really don't need to
serve with tomato sauce as a kid I used
to love ellipse mother so I'm not gonna
lie but I think these runs just fine as
they are piping hot